[Music]
looks like three o'clock on East Coast
time for those of you on the west coast
it's noon so we've got a little bit of a
chat here on Brandon how to create
clarity and drive growth
amidst the uncertainty that's happening
in the world right now
and we're just gonna dive in so I hope
you're all well and safe and excited for
some insights and some ideas on how to
work through the circumstances that
we're working through right now so this
is a brand new presentation it's
stripped down it's super simple slides
meant for these very complex time and
I'm here to talk to you about brand
demand and why it's so important and one
of those tools that you may not have in
your toolbox yeah so just a teensy bit
about me I'm a serial entrepreneur
myself I've spent more than the last 10
years as a start-up CMO in a number of
different businesses including SAS I'm
the author of the community managers
playbook which is all about how to build
brand awareness customer engagement in
the digital world and let's be honest
I'm also no stranger to managing a
crisis I started as an investigative
journalist before getting into marketing
in the startup world and I think a lot
of that sort of desire for the chase and
the competition came from all of my
experience as a triathlete and a swimmer
growing up so I'm here to give you a
little bit of energy as well as we go
through this ok so brand it's a startup
secret weapon and I'll tell you that
almost every single founder that I've
worked with whether it was when I was at
General Assembly building their brand
curriculum or whether it's in the
coaching work that I've done or just
friends that I'm trying to help every
single one of them is like oh my god I
wish I knew how to use brand earlier in
my startup journey I could have used it
to raise capital to win customers to
bring on employees and a number of other
things I'm sure all of you are working
through right now so let's just talk a
little bit about the specifics behind
this as a veteran interim CMO and this
is one of the things that I've spent
really the majority of the last 12 years
dealing outside of a couple Ventures of
my own
founded along the journey is I've really
stepped in as the interim CMO and
oftentimes this started with a friend of
mine coming to me or an SOS text message
oh my god marketing's failing or running
out of runway and they're like it's
marketing's fault
like markings falling down on the job I
need you to come in and fix it
and what I do find when I dig in is that
the problem often lies and almost always
lies across the company not just
specifically with marketing and this is
not to say and not to like punt the
blame to anybody else
marketing absolutely has a role almost
always in helping to fix moving a
company's growth forward however it's
normally not the source of problem that
founders often think that it is that
they're having a hard time acquiring
customers or moving through the funnel
often what I find in the dozens and
dozens of startups where I've been the
interim CMO or I've worked with them
through you know the key fundraising
phases to get to the next growth point
is that it's only 10% of the time where
marketing actually completely has failed
and often times that is because there's
a disconnect between you know the
marketing person or outsourcing it to an
agency or some junior marketer who's
been sort of tasked with being company's
entire growth and just doesn't know what
success looks like
so I'm here to give you some of those
tools about what happens the rest of the
time the outside of that 10% of the time
and maybe also just the acknowledgement
of the fact that 10% of the time its
decisions around who's leading marketing
and making sure there's integration
across multiple people it's you ensure
that you're set up for success okay so
let's look at this how do you move from
a brand and having a branch to a brand
that creates demand and one of the
things that I would say in terms of a
lot of the work that I've done in
creating a brand when somebody comes to
me and says hey Lauren can you help us
with our brand or building a brand or
the brand messaging what they're
actually asking me for is I want
customers to come to me in the middle of
the night with
having to do anything I want our
customers to bring all of their friends
along for the ride I want their referral
marketing to be a no-brainer I want this
to be so super easy
I want the brand to do the work for me
and we do have some amazing examples in
the startup community especially in the
last decade of startup growth where the
brand has driven demand by being super
clear and by being very straightforward
but so a lot of you are probably saying
well great Lauren in theory like yeah
having a brand that creates demand is
for a few instead of the many how do you
go about doing this
and it's a fantastic question we only
have a few minutes so I want to take us
through the key elements of creating a
brand that drives demand so that you can
have that really sharp tool to help you
through these critical times and how
you're communicating to your customers
your prospects and your employees your
investors anybody else that's in your
stakeholder mix so there's four keys
that I find are the most important when
it comes to brand demand and brand
creation the first is clarity the second
is connection
the third is momentum and the last is
all about alignment so these four
elements together if you do them really
well and define them as part of your
brand strategy you will be able to
create so much clarity for all of your
stakeholders and this includes who you
are where you're going who should join
you for the ride and how to do that but
also very clearly who shouldn't be
coming on the ride so that you can save
your tip time your team's time and
everybody else's energy by attracting
the people that are right for what
you're working on and make it really
clear for everybody else that you're not
the right fit for them just so that they
can find the solution they're looking
for and for you guys up to focus on what
matters most
okay so clarity so clarity we have
purpose promise and value I put these
sort of super simple three elements of
brand clarity here so that we can just
look very specifically at how you can
create each of these regardless of
whether you have any messaging
background
any brand background or marketing
background and almost all of you were
gonna say well yeah yeah of course we
know what our purpose in the world is we
know what we're promising our customers
and we know the value that we're
creating and I can tell you from coming
in from that interim sort of Fixer
perspective most the time I fixed these
three things and they don't even need me
anymore and I think a lot of you are
probably gonna have some questions at
the end and say no way how do you do
that but if you look at your homepage or
the emails that you write or whatever
assets you're using these three things
need to jump out there and not just for
your for your prospects in order to
convert them to customers also when
you're trying to bring in talent or both
employees advisers especially when
you're talking to investors they want to
know these things they want that purpose
promise and value to be explicitly clear
from the beginning so they know what you
can do now because that's part of your
promise they know the value that you're
creating now they also have that greater
purpose and this is actually one of the
biggest problems that I see with
startups especially when they're trying
to go after solving some big audacious
problem is they have this huge vision
but they don't ground it in what they're
doing today and especially in times like
this you've really got to simplify it
down you have to make it very easy for
people to say yes and to be able to
respond to you because everyone is just
so overwhelmed so as we look at that you
then have connection that's about
identity and community so your sense of
identity a brand that really draws you
and I'm a Nike alum myself from the
beginning of my career and one of the
things that Nikes done so well and
continues to do well is they make their
marketing so clear on who Nike is but it
attracts people who are more like them
and so you can use that sense of
connection and identity and your
messaging and your visuals in the way
that you interact on your products and
these types of things create that sense
of identity where you have them nodding
with you on a regular basis and it's
easy for them to say yes because it's
already happening and it creates a sense
of community both together with identity
and separately that's
community for a lot of SAS products is
the difference between you getting a
customer that then brings five or ten
people like them who then bring five or
ten people like them etc etc to
something where you're having to do
things on a much more manual one-on-one
basis so building a a cult-like
community around the problem that you're
solving again with clarity as that first
element will will just pay dividends in
spades momentum so I think a lot of us
as founders know this and anyone who's
been in the startup world for those of
you who are you know employees of a
start-up and trying to look for some
tools right now is we all know that once
you get your stride with a startup you
feel unstoppable and so many of you
might be saying well you're either in
the camp of you've got so much momentum
that you're drinking from a firehose or
you don't have enough momentum and
you're feeling that you're like at this
halt or at a pivot reap if it kind of
moment with what you're doing and I
think once you get those first two
elements of clarity and connection in
place then it's about that momentum
about setting a cadence for growth and
being in the conversation to be able to
be top of mind and then be able to
engage that conversation is the first
element then from there it really
becomes about making sure that the
customer perception of you is what you
want that perception to be and I know
that probably sounds like a little bit
vague but the customer perception is the
thing that can create so much momentum
how many of you have seen or it looks
like to take a Dropbox which you know at
its early stages use the idea of
momentum as its way of using referral
marketing to create momentum to build
traction and help them really scale up
so often if for those of you who are in
the earlier or in the early grow stages
it's helpful to look at some of the
companies that were like you that are at
sort of that further step in their in
their journeys and much an in a stable
place where they're sort of a fully
adopted product and then
reverse-engineer how did they get their
momentum because eventually you want the
momentum to carry itself you don't want
to have to continually use that startup
hustle in order to sort of for
the momentum up hill that's not what
you're looking for you want to find uses
first couple elements in order to then
move that momentum consistently forward
so here's one of the things that people
often forget about and you've heard me
mention all of your stakeholders and
your employees multiple times already in
our chat today internal alignment is the
is the additional sort of element here
and the reason that I share it is
because when you have clear goals a
clear vision and clear milestones it
really helps to create an autonomous
team and I think a lot of us are
attracted to the startup world because
there is a sense of togetherness but
also a sense of autonomy that there's
moments where you just need to put your
head down and focus and really be able
to build that momentum that we just
talked about but we you don't have
clarity it's really hard to hit
short-term milestones to hit bigger
goals or to go after that big vision and
make decisions autonomously on your own
or to propose solutions on your own and
as a founder those solutions could be
that you're proposing them to your
investors your customers this internal
alignment applies regardless of whether
you're a team of a couple people or a
team of hundreds of people and being
able to create the alignment really well
it's one of the biggest things that I
find in trying to create teams that are
high performance and that athletic side
of me always is sort of looking for this
is like what is that
tipping point in terms of how you set
the foundations up that regardless of
what's changing the team knows how to
move forward so how do you enable this
brand demand when we look at sort of the
visions and values right like we're
trying to sort of lock this in in terms
of pulling the pieces together the
vision and value is always clear so
these are the things that you need to do
to make sure that you're gonna be able
to create the kind of demand that it's
pulling customers towards you and it
starts with that vision and values again
you need to have that big picture of you
but then you need to be able to pull it
down to the day-to-day which is then
about the communicating effectively and
that the biggest advice that I can give
is you have to cut the muddy messages
if you have an email that's you know two
pages long you need to figure out what
is the 10% of that message that is
absolutely essential to communicate and
then put the rest into an asset or
something else but really trying to
remove any muddy messages to effectively
communicate when you're in these times
it's super super important and this goes
for all stakeholders customers employees
vendors investors etc etc strengthening
the value proposition so strengthening
the value proposition is something that
I've been doing a lot of work with with
founders in the last couple months and
so this is really you know what is that
thin edge of the sword that really cuts
in and people are like I can't live
without that part of what you do because
that's your your way in the door with
new customers but it's also the thing
you want to dig in on with customers
that you already have that either you
haven't been delivering enough value to
or now is your moment to ensure that you
keep those customers and get more like
them by hopping their back right now the
last element is all about
differentiation so differentiation
founders always understand the hustle
and the teams they attract the same
thing but if we can put that hustle
behind a real clear differentiation with
an eye towards what makes a difference
for the customers day to day it's a huge
support to a strong value proposition
because a strong value proposition
without differentiation it's really
opening itself up to competition when
you do all of these elements together
from the first several elements that we
walk through it really enables you to
unleash the power of brand mint so
here's a really simple exercise I've
actually been using this one quite a bit
with founders as well when you've got a
ton of messages going on or you're
trying to validate a pivot I try to
simplify down what you are doing into
what are the three things that people
absolutely positively have to know about
what you're doing and so you can use
this to prep to get on your virtual
stages you can use this
or what are the three things that I have
to get across in an email outreach the
three things that I have to communicate
when somebody does actually pick up the
phone and and give me some of their time
so the reason I say simplify it down to
your three most essential points is it's
really easy with everything going on to
be to let the train go off the tracks
and clarity is the first element that I
bring up because it is so so important
and this exercise is one that every
single one of you can do and so the
easiest thing is to try and take the
messaging triangle the three points and
then look at the this sort of graphic
that I've just gone back to you around
enabling demand one of your points is
likely around visions or value depending
on what your product is one should
absolutely be about your value prop and
your third should be what makes you
unique and different that's a really
easy framework so if you're trying to
test a pivot come up with that messaging
triangle come up with a couple of them
and know what it is that you're trying
to communicate so there's three simple
points and I don't mean three paragraphs
I mean three bullet points that if
somebody literally only gave you a
minute that you can make sure that you
can weave that into conversation okay so
let's just wrap this up I wanted to make
sure that we gave ourselves enough time
for a few questions here at the end and
so this is a recap of how do you get
results leveraging brand to drive demand
so that customers want to come to you
and so clarity creates confidence
especially during these times if you're
trying to get people to part with their
money you need to give them confidence
that spending that money is going to
really serve them so you need to they
need to know what that promise is what
that value is baked into that clarity
connection builds trust we all know that
things are about relationships and right
now who are people turning to the people
that they know and that they trust and
that they're really excited to do
business with but also they know that
you're gonna deliver and I know that all
of you on this phone know how to deliver
so creating that clarity building that
connection so that they know that you're
going to deliver then we
sir this alignment element again you
want to enable your teams especially
when things are super crazy you need to
be able to divide and conquer and not
have to have that fearfulness that
somebody might make a decision that you
don't agree with it that you're all
beating to different you know drums as
you're moving forward so this is really
enabling momentum and decision-making
within your organization last thing
about momentum is we all know that
momentum can drive outcomes because once
you get it going it's like a freight
train it just keeps going and going and
going so we really want to make sure
that you've done those first three
elements so that as you're getting it
out there you're building momentum and
traction even if you are pivoting or if
you're changing your messaging right now
and changing some of your product or
your focus is you want to build a
reputation that is going to attract the
kind of virality that is gonna have
customers doing the work for you with
that that is the super quick version of
brand demand for these crazy digital
times that we're working through with
work from home I would love to take some
questions both here and then if you
don't get your question answered feel
free to use Twitter or LinkedIn and I'm
happy to answer more questions to help
you guys out yeah thanks Lauren we've
got some really great questions from the
disaster audience the number one that
people have been uploading this
questions so they really want to know
what are your tips for measuring the ROI
of brand when brand in revenue sometimes
don't go in the same sentence together
absolutely so I mean there's a couple of
different ways what I try to use is use
brand for a tool for something that
we're already doing so whether that's
email outreach whether that's sales
pitches when I started to really apply
brand to things that are already
happening and showing the difference
between creating that clarity and the
connection and focusing in on these
couple key elements and showing the
difference between close times for for a
beedi deal for example like if you have
to kind of use business development as
part of your sort of closed cycle from a
SAS product if it's not all being done
online that's a great way of measuring
it I one of the other things I would say
is in terms of measuring some of the
specifics around brand
but also share some additional resources
after this with the sastra community is
one of the biggest things that you're
looking for and measuring brand is that
brand and doing the work with customers
will give you insights that you can
apply to both your marketing as well as
your product and so being able to
measure the outcomes on new product
features or new marketing campaigns that
came from insights and being able to
benchmark something existing versus
something new that's it that's a really
easy because you already have a place to
start
yep no that's super helpful and I know
one that people have been asking a lot
about today is hiring so people want to
know specifically from with your
insights in your background how do you
bridge brand for hiring especially now
absolutely so one of the stories that it
didn't think I had enough time to share
in today's chat was during the last
market crash a founder I got one of
those SOS text messages saying we've got
three months of runway I've had to fire
almost all of our people but I need to
recruit either our customers or people
that are really passionate about what
we're doing into the fold or some of our
employees that we can't afford that we
want to find a way to incentivize them
so that when we weather this storm
they're sort of a part of it for the
next journey and so I'd say the biggest
way that we actually used it in that
example was for all of the stakeholders
but it worked really well with employees
was having that brand clarity of like
what's the purpose and what are we
collectively trying to do together and
then how they can contribute so it was
really simple once we validated from the
community from a customer standpoint
like what is the problem we need to
solve now in the new circumstance
was then what about that could really
attract talent and so from a community
building standpoint I think that's
really a powerful way of trying to
attract talent is to take the consumer
insights that are part of your purpose
and then the promises that you're making
to your customers and use very similar
ones with your customers because you
want how you want your employees to be
your first customers and I do often find
is that when that's the case that you
end up having people that are super
super dedicated and for the founders on
the line that's that's the kinds of
employees that are going to act as you
would write like we all want we all want
employees or
you know contractors or people that are
helping us that will work as hard and be
as dedicated to the mission as a founder
is and so I think a lot of it in terms
of that employee side is to figure out
how the alignment between customer
employee and then I do this with
everyone when I recruit and I've
recruited you know hundreds of people
especially building communities you're
building you know recruiting ambassadors
and you know sometimes dozens of people
at a time is to figure out what it is
that are the top three things you
absolutely need in that hire and then as
you're interviewing asking what it is
that makes that person a high performer
and seeing where that alignment is
because then you could say you know what
the three things that are most important
to us in response to the three things
that like really make you succeed here's
how we can fit that up right so it's
almost like you're doing a value prop
with a really strong message and clarity
for that new hire or for that sometimes
you know volunteer I totally think that
this is something that people in the
startup community should be considering
right now is you know there's a lot of
people that are out of work who would be
willing to and in our past crashes have
said you know what I'd rather have
something on my resume and be adding
value and contributing to something that
I believe in knowing that if we do
there's going to be an opportunity for
there you'll write me an amazing
recommendation and help me make
connections to get a gig so a lot of
creative things on the HR side to think
about yeah absolutely
thank you for those insights Lauren so I
wish we had more time but LinkedIn on
I'll answer more questions
[Music]